Congratulations!
You've just completed a very challenging case study, and let me be the first to tell you that I am proud of you!
In this case study, you had to push yourself to learn new concepts in the
financial system and apply advanced skills in Power BI to accomplish your role as a trader.
This was a challenging task, and you crushed it!
The first chapter taught you about the financial system and how money moves from people, banks, and lenders.
This case study focused on the mortgage market, and you learned the ins and outs of mortgages and loan agreements.
As we reviewed mortgage data, you used Power Query to clean up the datasets
and used IF statements to create trade statuses and calculate scheduled balances.
In Chapter 2, you learned about trading mortgages in the capital markets and
explored the difference between whole loan trades and mortgage-backed securities.
You compared the different prices from these trading strategies as benchmarks, which helped to make trading decisions.
You used Power Query and M to create a system to
find each loan's maximum bid and winning bidder, and you combined many datasets into a cohesive data model.
After finding the loans to trade, you calculated trade
premiums and prices to determine the total revenue earned on the trade.
You explored why the weighted average price is better for describing the traded loan population over a mean average.
Finally, in chapter 3 you learned about competitive markets and how
lenders need to be competitively priced or else they can lose business.
You learned how to analyze profit margin and used the AI-driven key
influencers visualization to draw insights into the profit earned on the traded loans.
You then used those insights to determine if Sooper Mortgage was
competitively priced and identified opportunities to change pricing based on your findings.
Wow!
That was an impressive recap of all the things you accomplished.
I hope you enjoyed working with me on this case study, and I hope it helped you become more
confident in your skills and curious about the important role the financial system plays in our everyday life.
I sincerely wish you the best of luck on your learning journey, wherever it takes you.
Until next time!